(DOCSP-49244) Add Use Cases to Deployment Paradigms (#183)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/deployment-paradigms.txt

   :depth: 2
   :class: onecol

> Deployment Paradigms Overview 
> -----------------------------

Reviewer: This heading isn't necessary.
```suggestion
```

Single-Region Deployments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A :ref:`single-region deployment <arch-center-paradigms-single>` is the simplest deployment paradigm.
In a single-region deployment, your data is stored in one of a provider's regions (such as {+aws+}'s ``us-west-2`` 
or {+gcp+}'s ``asia-northeast3``). Because {+service+} always provides a 
minimum of zone-level availability, your cluster nodes are spread across the 
availability zones within a single region. Therefore, if a single zone fails, your 
data is still available in the other zones.

With the simplicity and lower cost of a single-region deployment 
comes the risk of lower availability and potentially higher latency, depending on the 
distribution of your application's users. 

Multi-Region Deployments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A :ref:`multi-region deployment <arch-center-paradigms-multi-region>` is a more complex deployment paradigm that provides higher availability 
and low latency across a larger geographic range than a single-region deployment. There are several types of multi-region deployments:

- **Multi-region in one geography**:
  Deploys to multiple regions hosted by a single cloud provider 

>   within a single geography (large area like a country or continent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  within a single geography, which is a large area like a country or continent.
```

  This ensures availability if any given region fails.

  For example, if you deploy clusters to the {+aws+} regions ``us-west-1`` and ``us-east-1``,

>   and ``us-east-2``, then your application will have low latency for users across the United States 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and ``us-east-2``, then your application has low latency for users across the United States 
```

>   For example, if you deploy clusters to the {+aws+} regions ``us-west-1`` and ``us-east-1``,
>   and ``us-east-2``, then your application will have low latency for users across the United States 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For example, if you deploy clusters to the {+aws+} regions ``us-west-1``, ``us-east-1``,
  and ``us-east-2``, then your application will have low latency for users across the United States 
```

  and high availability in the case of a regional outage.  
  both of which are in the United States and are managed by the same cloud 

>   provider. 

Reviewer: I think maybe this should be deleted?

- **Multi-region in multiple geographies**:
  Deploys to one or more regions in two or more geographies.
  This ensures availability if any given region fails, or 
  if an entire geographic area is unavailable.

  For example, you deploy clusters in regions called ``us-1`` and ``us-3``, 
  both of which are in the United States, and a third cluster in ``eu-2``, 
  which is in Europe. 
  
- **Multi-cloud** : 
  Deploys to one or more regions hosted by multiple cloud providers. 
  This provides the highest level of availability, ensuring 
  your data is available if any given region fails or if an entire cloud provider fails. 

  For example, you deploy clusters in the {+aws+} region ``us-west-1`` and the {+gcp+} 
  region ``us-east4``. 

- **Global**:

>   deploys a global cluster with up to nine single or multi-region zones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Deploys a global cluster with up to nine single or multi-region zones.
```

>   This option should be considered for only the most complex 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Consider this option for only the most complex 
```

   the processing power of the servers. For the latest pricing information, 
   refer to the `MongoDB Pricing <https://www.mongodb.com/pricing>`_.

Use Cases 
~~~~~~~~~

> When choosing your deployment paradigm, you should start by identifying the smallest number of regions that you can deploy to serve 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When choosing your deployment paradigm, start by identifying the smallest number of regions that you can deploy to serve 
```

the widest geographical distribution of your users. Then, consider adding additional regions or 
cloud providers according to your requirements for availability, performance, and
:ref:`data sovereignty <arch-center-compliance-data-sovereignty>`. 

Consider the following use cases to help decide which deployment paradigm works for the geographical distribution of your application's users: 

Users Mostly in One Geography
`````````````````````````````

> If the majority of your application's users are located in one geography (a large area like a continent or country),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the majority of your application's users are located in one geography,
```

we recommend that you deploy to one or more regions within the same geography.
While a single-region deployment can protect against an outage in a single availability zone,
a multi-region deployment covers a larger geographical area and ensures availability during both zonal and regional outages.
For even higher availability, you can deploy across multiple regions *and* multiple cloud providers to protect against cloud-provider outages.

> These options all support low latency and simplify compliance with data sovereignty requirements, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These options all support low latency and simplify compliance with data sovereignty requirements 
```

because all user data is accessed and stored within the same geography. 

To learn more about these deployment paradigms, see the following paradigm pages: 

- :ref:`Single-Region Deployment <arch-center-paradigms-single>`
- :ref:`Multi-Region Deployment in One Geography <arch-center-paradigms-multi-region>`
- :ref:`Multi-Region and Multi-Cloud Deployment in One Geography <arch-center-paradigms-multi-cloud>`

Users Distributed Across Multiple Geographies
`````````````````````````````````````````````

If your application's users are distributed across multiple geographies, such as between the US and Europe,
we recommend that you deploy to one or more regions in each geography. 
Deploying to one region in each geography where you serve customers provides low latency and 
availability in case of a geographical outage. You can also meet data sovereignty requirements
by partitioning your data so that user data from each geography is hosted within that geography.

To ensure high availability in case of regional outages without increasing latency or violating data sovereignty requirements,

> you can also deploy to multiple regions in each geography. The highest availabilty for a multi-region deployment 
> is achieved by deploying clusters to multiple regions, in multiple geographies, hosted by multiple cloud providers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can also deploy to multiple regions in each geography. You can achieve the highest availability for a multi-region deployment 
by deploying clusters to multiple regions, in multiple geographies, hosted by multiple cloud providers. 
```

To learn more about these deployment paradigms, see the following paradigm pages: 

- :ref:`Multi-Region Deployment in Multiple Geographies <arch-center-paradigms-multi-region>`
- :ref:`Multi-Region and Multi-Cloud Deployment in Multiple Geographies <arch-center-paradigms-multi-cloud>`

Users Distributed Worldwide
```````````````````````````

If you are deploying an application to a worldwide audience, we recommend that you deploy a multi-region deployment 
across multiple geographies before considering a global deployment. Global |service| deployments are the most complex multi-region deployment paradigms,

> and therefore require very careful planning. In most cases, a multi-region deployment in multiple geographies will fulfill your requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and therefore require very careful planning. In most cases, a multi-region deployment in multiple geographies can fulfill your requirements
```
